Welcome back.
Up until this point, we talked about singly linked list and we should have a good idea of how they
work.
But what is a doubly linked list?
Doubly link list is similar, except that it links to the node before it.
Let's have a look at a little animation here.
We have a head node, let's say we just have one node.
You see that we have an extra block here.
We are not really sure what this does yet.
Now, if we wanted to add a new block to this list, a doubly linked list, and we wanted to add a node
that contains the value ten, well, we would now have a pointer to the next node.
We'd also have a pointer.
This is the new part to the previous node.
And the new node is going to point to no.
And this now becomes the tale.
If we added a another node, well, we'd have the ten node point to the new node.
We'd also have the new node.
Point to the previous node, and then finally that becomes a tail, which means it points to no.
And that's what a doubly linked list is.
It has an extra little block here, an extra piece of data that also links to the previous node.
Now.
Why do you think that's important?
Doubly link lists allow us to traverse our list backwards.
So up until now, we were only able to go from the beginning all the way to the end with a doubly linked
list.
I can start from the end and go backwards.
In a singly linked list.
There is no way for me to know what comes before ten, what comes before this node in a doubly linked
list?
That is no problem.
It's exactly the same as the singly linked list, but contains this additional pointer to the previous
node and searching through a doubly linked list can actually be a little bit more efficient.
And lookup can technically be o of n divided by two because we can start at both ends.
And if we know in which half of the list what we're looking for is, we can pick the optimum place to
start.
Now the lookup here is still o of NW because if you remember with our rule book with o o of NW divided
by two is still of NW, but it's still technically a little bit faster.
Now the downside to a double link list, as you can see, is that we might have to hold a little bit
more memory, an additional block of memory.
And we have a video talking about when to use doubly link list and a singly linked list later on.
But to understand this properly, I think we should convert our singly linked list that we created in
the previous videos to a doubly link list.
So let's go have a look at how to do that.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.